And here we are going to discuss your sed command with the bigots and
that gigs or regular expression I'm going to create with the help of special characters.
You know, what is the Regex or regular expression?
If any expression is using a pattern,
then that expression is called regular expression.
Let me explain you that once again with a small example.
Suppose I'm having a file called this one,
and I want to print out the lines which are having,
let's say, you know how to print a line which are having particular word, right?
I want to print this line.
I want to print to the line which are having put word from your file.
Yes, you're getting something.
Now, I want to write one thing here,
such that I want to print the lines which are having put on port.
Then see what I'm doing. Now, see the output.
All right, I'm getting the lines which consists of potent port.
But I'm writing something that is going to show you that is going to
represent towards one is beauty and one more is pivoting.
So this is called a patron because this pattern is going to represent multiple words.
If any expression is going to,
if any given pattern is going to represent multiple words, right?
And if you use that pattern in your expression,
then that is called regular expression.
Right?
Fine.
Now we are going to create
this regular expressions with the help of this special characters.
We have some other special characters as well.
We will see them in later videos.
As of now, I am going to take this set of special characters to create
your regular expression or to create your pattern and using your projects, right?
Let me go with one by one.
The very first one is space slash.
Yes.
So slash yes means matches for space.
See that?
So first of all, this is your file.
I want to print the,
the lines which are having space.
So space is represented with thick character called slash.
Yes, I see that you're getting the lines which are having space.
So these lines having space,
there is no space from here to here, these lines,
so that way you're not getting that lines, right.
So you are getting a lines which are having a space.
Fine.
Now my intention is I want to print the line which are having only slash is itself.
That means I want to match his last years with this last S only the basic meaning Force.
Last year's means space.
Now I don't want to look for space.
I want to match his class yes. With the slash? Yes.
Only if you have got somewhere I'm having slashed.
Yes. That means if I look with the slash yes,
then how to print only this line, right?
So at that time you have to eliminate the special character purpose with the slash.
So for any special character,
if you write the slash, then the purpose will be removed.
Actually does slash yes.
Purposes space, no space purposes removed.
Now you are looking first, last,
yes, only now see the output.
We are getting the line which is having slashes.
So like ways not only for your slashes,
for any special character,
if you want to remove the special purpose of your character,
you can add one slash and slash is called escape character,
removing special-purpose off your special character, right?
Find Next one is slash p. Slash t means nothing is there.
Printed the lines which are having Tab space.
So you output.
Right?
And if you observe guys,
we even while searching with the slash Yes,
you are getting this line.
And while searching with the tab,
we are getting this line, right?
So tab is also space NOW, right?
So slash ESU the subset of T,
but nods last t's subset of slashes,
slash S is the subset of velocity.
That's why you're getting EVA, even while searching with
his last years, they're getting this line.
But only slash demons.
These all are not having tabs based.
That's why I'm not getting those lines.
We are getting only this line because this line is having tabs space.
Then next thing is dot.
Dot matches any character excluding newline c. I will do one thing.
First of all, although your file,
now what I'm doing is said hyphen n printed the lines which are
having PUT normal expression without objects from your file. Yes.
Now what I am doing is between p and p,
i am placing.means between P and T
may be any character printed the lines which are having p,
some character and then p.
So you have some three letter word, right?
Such that P, any character and then T.
Right? Now see the output.
We are getting all the lines which are having p something T,
P something pe, something,
DP something, DP something tea.
Now I want to print the lines exactly p something t,
but that should be a word.
So what means you should have some space?
No.
Right?
You should have some space.
Now I'm including slash yes, C, the output.
Oh sorry.
I included outside of your forward slash.
Actually this is slash yes, C, the output.
Now you're not getting this line.
The reason is you are looking for a word which consists of starting side some space.
Right?
Now let me modify your file and I
will do something.
Now.
First of all, let me print the lines which are having p.me,
any character and then T,
c, the output, how many lines you are getting.
So P something PP something DP something,
DP something V. Now I want to print the lines which are on having,
like your word means before starting your word and after ending your worry,
you should have some space no slash Yes.
Sorry. I forgot Blessing dot p dot p,
p, any character then d, three letters, world.
But starting and ending must be a space.
See that only these two words are having space starting on ending.
Right?
Fine.
Now what about your next character?
That is yet one more thing about these guys.
He house somewhere dot.
Now I want to print it out lines which are having dot.
Suppose you find such in this way,
simply dot c, the output yard you are getting,
you are getting more lanes.me, any character?
No. But my intention is I want to match dot with dot only.
That means the general purpose of your data,
how to remove then only it matches with dot.
So for that, how to use slash.
Now the special purpose of your dot will be removed.
Now you are looking for dot with a dot only.
That's it.
So likewise, for any special character,
if you want to match with exactly with a special character itself,
then you have to use one extra slash for your special characters.
That fine.
Now next thing is star.
So star matches a sequence of
0 or more instances of matches for the preceding that your expression.
Let me explain that with an example so that he can understand.
First of all, this one.
Now what I am doing is I am trying to look, okay,
the lines which are having this from your file, see the output.
We are getting almost all lines.
Right? But this line,
whatever the file, the hedge I yeah.
There is no yes in this line.
That's why you're not getting that line here.
But if I write a star after Yes.
Now for yes, you are applying start not for entire world,
simply out playing for ESL star.
Yes.
Means yes, maybe or maybe present.
I mean, simply Juno times or more than 0 times.
Now, this word, this expression meaning is this pattern meaning
is that word representing simply this star?
We ss star means yes,
maybe Juno time or maybe one time or maybe two times,
or maybe three times or maybe four times,
likewise, up to infinity.
Now you are going to print the,
the lines which are having this type of words. Now.
See that.
Now you are going to get, this sees a line without Yes, Dee, Dee.
But here whenever if you strictly such with this,
you're not getting THE line,
but you are getting NOW THE line because yeses optional.
Yes, maybe 0 times or more than 0 times.
Right?
So that is the meaning of star.
Now let me go with the slash plus exactly what's taught but matches one or more.
So if you write simply stop,
it is looking for c. If I write simply this, yes.
And then slash plus.
So the meaning is yes much to be there at least one time.
Then or two times,
or three times or four times.
Likewise up to infinity.
Exactly a star. But the thing is,
star means that letter may or may not be present.
But a class place means that let us, you'd be there.
That character should be there at least one time or more than once.
That's it.
Now see that if I print with the slash plus,
sorry, yes, then remove, then plus.
Now you are going to get the lines which are having this,
this, this, this, this,
and tss, tss, right? See the output.
At least yes, must be there one time or more than one time.
Also star means 0 or more than 100 or more than 0.
Slash plus means minimum one time,
more than one times.
Then star question mark.
So it is going to match either Juno time or onetime,
either genotype or one time.
See that?
Now you're going to get these DHA also because star slash star means this yes,
may be presented genotype or one time.
Now if you may get confused here it is fine.
Phs, S is one time,
and here S is 0 time.
But what about these things?
You are going to match up to this remaining thing you have.
That's why you are getting entire line.
But if you want to match exactly with the space after this dendrite S,
now see the output, right?
So you are going to match this or PHI,
but after that you should have a space. Right?
That's we're not getting multiple s This right?
Fine.
Then.
Yeah, heard you discuss about the slash symbol, right?
So these are the, some of these special characters which are using regular expressions.
We will see some more regular expressions in the next video.
I'm in some more regular expressions with special characters.
Okay?
Okay guys, thank you for watching this video.